# ADS-LinearProgramming assignment

## Offline algorithm
The final solution is located in the file *formula_2.py*. [Google OR tools](https://developers.google.com/optimization/introduction/overview) library has been used for the implementation,
since the formulation is an ILP problem.\
The script can be executed to solve an instance in two ways:
* From the command line by passing the file path to the an instance text file as an argument
* From the IDE, but the variable **INSTANCE_PATH** must be edited to the respective path

The script does the following steps:
1. Parse the input from the instance text file and transform it into matrices understandable by the solver
2. Declare the **Constant & Decision Variables** that the solver uses to find the optimum for the problem.
3. Set up the **Constraints** for the ILP problem.
4. Find the **Optimal Solution** by minimization.
5. Show the solution in the console.

The file *multi_knap.py* contains the first attempt at the problem formulation. However, this does not always provide the optimal solution.

## Instance generation
We have created two instance generation scripts, *gen_inst.py* and *gen_inst_2.py*. Instances generated by these scripts have been used in the experiments.

## Experiments
For experiments, *experimenter.py* script has been created. It works in the following way:
1. It loads the instances from a specified folder
2. Creates an output *exp_results.csv* file to store the results
3. It runs the ILP formulation on the loaded instances.
4. Saves the result from the current instance in the output *exp_results.csv* file



